
	Text::NCleaner

NCleaner is a software tool for cleaning up Web pages by removing boilerplate
and other unwanted material, especially for linguistic purposes (the "Web as
Corpus").  It uses simple character-level n-gram models for the automatic
classification of text segments.  Since it operates on plain text only and
does not make use of structural information, it can be applied both to HTML
files and to text dumps of Web pages.

NCleaner participated in the first CleanEval competition (under its former
name "StupidOS"), where its text cleaning accuracy was close to the best
contestants [see http://webascorpus.sf.net/CLEANEVAL/].  A detailed
description of NCleaner can be found in

  Evert, Stefan (2008). A lightweight and efficient tool for cleaning
    Web pages. In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on
    Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).
	
The NCleaner distribution includes two pre-trained models for English Web
pages.  New models can easily be estimated from manually cleaned text dumps.


PREREQUISITES

NCleaner depends on Lynx, a text-mode Web browser, for converting HTML pages
to plain text.  It also uses a number of other Perl modules.  The complete
list of prerequisites is as follows:

    lynx  --  command-line program must be available in search path

    Test::More
    Data::Dumper
    Inline::C  --  strongly recommended for much faster processing

If prerequisites are missing, warnings will be displayed during the
installation procedure.

If the fast Inline::C implementation is available, every user of NCleaner
should create a cache directory

	~/.Inline/

in his or her home directory.  Otherwise Inline::C will create temporary cache 
directories (named "_Inline/") wherever the program is run, and will have
to recompile the C code much more often.


INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install


SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for the NCleaner API
and command-line programs with the perldoc command.

    perldoc Text::NCleaner  --  programmer API to NCleaner
    perldoc ncleaner        --  NCleaner command-line program
    perldoc train-ncleaner  --  estimate new n-gram models

For further information, bug reports and new versions, check out the
NCleaner homepage on

	http://webascorpus.sf.net/


COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE

Copyright (C) 2008 Stefan Evert

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

